.TH bzfls 6
.SH NAME
bzfls \- BZFlag game server-list server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
.B bzfls
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-help\fR]
[\fB\-p \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-version\fR]
[\fIbootstrap-list\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBBzfls\fR keeps a list of \fBbzfs\fR servers.  It's used to help
\fBBZFlag\fR clients find available servers on the internet.
.SS Options
.RS
.TP 15
\fB-d\fR
Increases the debugging level.  The option may appear multiple times
to increase the amount of debugging information printed.  It should
not be used in normal circumstances.
.TP
\fB-help\fR
Print the version and usage information then exit.
.TP
\fB-p\fI port\fR
Listen for requests on \fIport\fR instead of the default port.
.TP
\fB-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\fIbootstrap-list\fR
Initialize the server list with the servers listed in the file
\fIbootstrap-list\fR.  This is normally used when restarting the
server to avoid having to wait for servers to register themselves
again.
.RE
.SS Notes
Public \fBbzfs\fR servers (i.e. those that used the \fI-public\fR
option) register themselves with \fBbzfls\fR servers at regular
intervals and update their information, such as the number of
current players, as it changes.  \fBBZFlag\fR clients query the
\fBbzfls\fR servers to provide the user a list of available
servers.  Working together these programs provide users an easy
way to find games.
.PP
Game servers (\fBbzfs\fR) will also unregister themselves when
they exit.  However, since it's possible for the servers to be
unable to unregister themselves, bzfls will drop servers that
it hasn't heard from in a certain amount of time.  Normally
bzfs will send updates more often than this, even if nothing
has changed.  If bzfls is stopped and restarted, the listed
bzfs servers will not know this and they won't show up on the
list until they send an update.
.PP
Both clients and servers use a built-in url to find a list of
\fBbzfls\fR servers (see URLs below).  This url is maintained
by the BZFlag author and lists a number of \fBbzfls\fR servers.
Only these servers are required for game clients and servers
to provide automatic server finding.  You do not need to run
your own bzfls under normal circumstances.
.PP
If you want a private list of servers then you can run bzfls
but you must also get clients and servers to use it.  BZFlag
uses the \fB-list\fI url\fR option to specify an alternate
bzfls server.  Bzfs uses \fB-publiclist\fI url\fR.  See URLs
below for a description of the url format.
.SS URLs
The BZFlag family understands URLs with the standard syntax but
supports a non-standard set of protocols.
.RS
.TP 15
\fBhttp://\fIhostname\fR[:\fIport\fR][\fIpath\fR]
.TP
\fBfile:\fIpath\fR
.TP
\fBbzflist://\fIhostname\fR[:\fIport\fR]
.RE
.PP
The \fBhttp\fR protocol is the standard HTTP protocol but only
a subset of responses are understood.  The reply must either
be 200 (okay) with one or more URLs in the above form, one per
line;  or a 302 (object moved) with the new http URL.
.PP
The \fBfile\fR protocol names a file on the system that contains
one or more URLs in the above form, one per line.
.PP
The \fBbzflist\fR protocol names a \fBbzfls\fR server and an
optional port.  Unlike the other protocols, this type of URL does
not list more URLs.  Instead it points to an actual bzfls server.
.PP
Note that the http and file protocols can be used to list
multiple bzfls servers.  The built-in url does this;  each bzfls
server acts as a backup for the others.  Any number of URLs may
be given, but only a certain number of bzflist URLs will be
used (the exact number is compiled into bzflag and bzfs).
.SS Protocol
The bzfls protcol is very simple, with just 5 messages.  See
the source code for details.  One message worth noting here is
\fBGET\fR.  You can request the server list from a bzfls server
using a protocol similar to HTTP.  Sending a message with the
first line of the form "GET \fIurl\fR HTTP/\fI*\fR", where
the * stands for any sequence of characters, causes bzfls to
send an HTTP reply with the server list.  The GET line may be
followed by any number of lines;  they are ignored.  Most web
browsers can successfully query the server list;  just change
bzflist in a URL to http.  Note that the url in the GET line is
ignored.
.SS Signals
\fBBzfls\fR handles the following signals:
.RS
.TP 15
\fBSIGUSR1\fR
Causes bzfls to write the current server list to /tmp/bzfls.lst.
This list can be used as a bootstrap file.
.TP 15
\fBSIGUSR2\fR
Causes bzfls to write network statistics to /tmp/bzfls.cnt.
.RE
.SH FILES
.RS
.TP 15
/tmp/bzfls.cnt
The network statistics dumped by SIGUSR2.
.TP
/tmp/bzfls.lst
The server list dumped by SIGUSR1.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
bzflag(6), bzfs(6)
